2023-11-20
What are Hash functions: A hash function is simply a function that takes in input value, and from that input creates an output value deterministic of the input value.
For any x input value, you will always receive the same y output value whenever the hash function is run.
Note: Hashes are often used in this context of varifying information without revealing it to the party that is verifying.

A Proof of Work algorithm (PoW) is how new Blocks are created or mined on the blockchain. The goal of PoW is to discover a number which solves a problem. The number must be difficult to find but easy to verify--computationally speaking--by anyone on the network.
Difficult to solve but easy to velify.

Crypto-currency
cryptographic hash function: (1) collision resistance (collision free). [x != y, H(x) = H (y)]   
                             (2) hiding. [x, H(x); but H(x) can not to x]
Digital commitment (Digital equivalent of a sealed envelope) 
                             (3) puzzle friendly. H(x+nonce)

SHA256 (Secure Hash Algorithm)

 去中心化账户 (public key, private key) 
asymmetric encrytion algorithm
encryption key
签名用private key， 发送用public key

hash pointers
block chain is a linked list using hash pointers

genesis block,.........,most recent block
tamper-evident log

Merkle tree (Binary tree)

Proof of membershiip
Proof of inclusion

Sorted Merkle Tree

block header: version, hash root previous block header, merkle root hash, target, nonce
block body: transaction list

full node (fully velidating node)
light node gghb

Distributed consensus: distributed hash table

Consensus in BitCoin
membership, hyperledger, fabric
sybil attack 女巫攻击

block reward
coinbase transaction

每一个区块可产生50BTC，21w个区块后到25BTC，再过21w产生12.5BTC

transaction-based ledger
UTXO: Unspent Transaction Output

account-based ledger 

Bernulli trail: a random experiment with binary outcome
Bernoulli process: a sequence of independent Bernoulli trails
memoryless
Poisson process
exponential distribution

Bitcoin is secured by mining

irrevocable ledger

The Bitcoin network 
application layer: Bitcoin Block chain
network layer: P2P Overlay Network
Simple, robust, but not efficient
flooding
